W-15288849 graphql console GA jh (#271)
mulesoft/docs-exchange: modules/ROOT/pages/view-graphql-api-schemas-and-run-queries.adoc

= View GraphQL API Schemas and Run Queries
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../assets/images/

Use the GraphQL console to explore and understand the available GraphQL schemas, and write, run, and troubleshoot GraphQL queries. The console is an easy-to-use interface for API app developers to interact with GraphQL APIs in Exchange. GraphQL APIs are schema definitions that contain the object types and definitions that are used to interact with the API through the GraphQL specification. The GraphQL console enables app developers to query an API that supports this language in a more flexible way than REST. The console supports standard GraphQL query syntax. The console is located in the asset details page.

image::ex-graphql-console.png[GraphQL console in the asset details page]

[calloutlist]
. *Schema*: Use the Schema explorer to explore the GraphQL API schema types and documentation.
. *Query*: Use the Query editor to write and run queries.
+

> * *Variables*: Use this tab to enter variables that you want to use to query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Variables*: Use this tab to enter variables to query.
```

> * *Headers*: Use this tab to enter header information that you want to use to query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Headers*: Use this tab to enter the header information to query.
```

.. Click the three dots icon, select *Search for content*, and enter a keyword in the box.
.. Use the *CTRL+F* or *Command+F* keyboard shortcut and enter a keyword in the *Search content* box.

== Run a GraphQL Query
Use the query editor to write queries in the console and run them in real-time. Add fields without knowing the specific syntax using autocomplete or *Control+Space*. The query editor is located in the *Query* panel. 

The *Results* panel provides immediate feedback and displays the results of the query and any errors. To run queries, a GraphQL instance is required to query between the API instance. Non-managed instances can be added to run the queries.

. In the *Query* panel, click *Clear* to the clear the editor.
. Click in the editor and start typing your query using autocomplete or press *Control+Space*.
. Click *Prettify* to improve the formatting of the query objects in the editor. 
. Click *Copy*, then paste the query text into a text editor and share with others or save for later.
. In the *Variables* section, add any query variables to include in the query.
. In the *Header* section, add any header information to include in the query.

> . From the *Instance selector*, select an available server instance to use to run the query. If there are no server instances available, the *Execute* button is disabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. From the *Instance selector*, select an available server instance to run the query. If there are no server instances available, the *Execute* button is disabled.
```

image::ex-graphql-console.png[GraphQL console in the asset details page]

[calloutlist]
. *Schema*: Use the Schema explorer to explore the GraphQL API schema types and documentation.
. *Query*: Use the Query editor to write and run queries.
+
* *Variables*: Use this tab to enter variables that you want to use to query.
* *Headers*: Use this tab to enter header information that you want to use to query.
. *Results*: Use this panel to review and troubleshoot queries.

== Before You Begin

To use the GraphQL console, the Exchange Viewer permission is required. For more information, see xref:to-set-permissions.adoc[Set User Access Permissions].

== View GraphQL API Schemas

Explore the schema by inspecting the types, fields, and relationships defined in the schema to see a visual representation of the data and operations. Use the Schema explorer to inspect the query methods that are available in the API schema. The documentation explorer renders the information and allows the ability to navigate through the documentation of the API.

> Use the *Search* box or keyboard shortcuts to search the schema documentation to find relevant information about specific types, fields, or operations. The search results highlight the search criteria in the corresponding sections of the documentation.

Reviewer 2: I think it could be useful to unify the wording on `Search box` to `Search content box` or `Search for content box`, as this is the only way provided of searching the documentation.
![image](https://github.com/mulesoft/docs-exchange/assets/33035530/63be5ef2-f548-437a-9d0f-d362f306d85d)
![image](https://github.com/mulesoft/docs-exchange/assets/33035530/be0ecb0a-1712-46d1-b3c6-bd14d6c5308c)

. In the Exchange landing page, click the *Any type* filter and select *GraphQL APIs* from the list.
. Select a GraphQL API from the results.
. In the navigation bar, click *Console*.
. In the *Schema* panel, review the schema documentation.

> . Click *ExchangeGraph* to see the root schema types for each operation.

Reviewer 2: This is specific to our example schema, not to the GraphQL console as a whole
```suggestion
```

. Search the schema documentation using one of the following methods: 
.. Use the *Search for content* box by clicking the three dots icon, selecting and entering a keyword in the *Search for content* box.

> .. Use the *CTRL+F* or *Command+F* keyboard shortcuts by pressing a keyboard shortcut combination and entering a keyword in the *Search* box.

Reviewer 2: Same here, one line says `Search box` and the other says `Search for content box`.

== Run a GraphQL Query

> Use the query editor to write queries in the console without knowing the specific syntax and run them in real-time. The query builder enables you to add data to the query by selecting from a list of options or using the autocomplete function. The query editor is located in the *Query* panel. 

Reviewer 3: 🤔 We are not providing what we understand as a `query builder` feature. I think that this sentence `The query builder enables you to add data to the query by selecting from a list of options or using the autocomplete function.` is a little bit confusing.

The *Results* panel provides immediate feedback and displays the results of the query and any errors. To run queries, a GraphQL instance is required to query between the API instance. Non-managed instances can be added to run the queries.

. In the *Query* panel, click *Clear* to the clear the editor.
. Click in the editor and start typing your query using the in-line autocomplete function or press *Control+Space* to add types.
. Click *Prettify* to improve the formatting of the query objects in the editor. 
. Click *Copy*, then paste the query text into a text editor and share with others or save for later.
. In the *Variables* section, add any query variables to include in the query.
. In the *Header* section, add any header information to include in the query.

> . From the *Instance selector*, select an available server instance  to use to run the query. If there are no server instances available, the *Instance selector* is disabled.

Reviewer 3: Here, what is disabled when there is no instance selected is the `Execute` button
